Tanya Cushman Reviewer's Tanya Cushman
Reviewer's Tanya Cushman ...tonight and
that's the opening. The opening is for me
saying I'm the person who normally
introduces the speaker, who introduces the
evening speaker. But tonight we really
have no speaker. So the first thing I
wanted to ask you is to help me welcome
Mrs. Pina Bausch and the dancers.
Now, as you imagine, although my friend
Jeffrey Schnapp is standing here, I'm
standing here, we are not going to do the
performance tonight. Maybe next time. So
Matthias Schmigel from the Tanztheater
will introduce the dancers of the
Tanztheater to you. Good evening, thank
you very much. First I will start with
Julie Shanahan from Australia.
Juliana Arante from Brazil.
Rafael Delonay from France, Fernando
Suell from Venezuela, and
the one in charge of our our music,
Matthias Burckert from Germany.
See, now you know that part of the reason
to organize tonight's event was to show
you what a multicultural country Germany
is, especially Wuppertal. This is truly
amazing. Talking of which, this is a very
special event also to give thank you to
President Kasper, not only for his
continued support, now that we enter the
final stretch of the early round of the
Presidential Lectures and Symposia. I need
to say tonight that, Pina, I think that's
true. We wouldn't have gotten you without
Gerhard's intervention. And there's a
secret, because President Kasper and Pina
Bausch are both members of the highest
order, one of the highest orders of the
Federal Republic of Germany, the Puhle
Merit. So this is for the two Puhle Merit
prize-takers.
And I wouldn't want to miss the
opportunity to briefly, briefly announce
our other events of this artsy program in
the fall of this academic year. Our next
event will be a colloquium, humanities,
social sciences, and law on the topic past
dependencies and that will take place in
the law school on November 5th, Friday,
and November November 6th, a Saturday, and
there will be, because this is the Artsy
Fall, a piano recital by Charles Rosen on
the evening of Friday. The following event
is just the following Monday, November
8th. This will be a lecture in our lecture
series of the art historian Svetlana
Alpers. And finally, on November 29th,
again a Monday, in Kresge Auditorium,
we'll have a bilingual poetry reading by
the great Chinese poet Bei Dao and by his
translator and friend Elliot Weinberger.
So we'll have poems in Mandarin and poems
in English and the next day as always
there will be ample opportunity for
discussion. Now I was saying that I was
not introducing a person who's introducing
Pina Bausch because so many people we know
it from the hits counted have seen the
website but I would like to inform you
briefly what we have planned tonight. In a
minute, in literally a minute, Pina Bausch
will take over and lead you into the dance
rehearsal. And the very exciting thing for
us is we have no clue what's going to
happen. It's going to be great, no doubt
about it. After an hour or so, Pina Bausch
will ask my colleague and friend Jeffrey
Schnap, the Rossetti Professor of Italian
Literature and Comparative Literature,
that's not the official title but I want
to say it's complete too, and he will then
have a discussion, conduct a discussion
with Pina and with the dancers and we will
soon open up to the floor. And then at 9 o
'clock sharp, more or less sharp, we will
have on behalf of President Kasper a
reception here in the courtyard of Roble
and that is definitely a reception for
everybody. So we really have to help us to
eliminate, to delete all the food which
will be out there at 9 o'clock. So thanks
again for coming and Pina we are so much
looking forward.
Oh yes. Good evening. I'm very very happy
and honored to be here at Stanford and I
like to thank very much for this wonderful
invitation.
For me it's very difficult because usually
I have not much work because what I have
to say I usually try to do with my works
on the stage. And so it was not possible
to do here performance because we are on
tour, we are in the moment in Berkeley.
And then I thought maybe it would be very
nice to just show a bit of the work. And I
thought about the Rite of Spring from Igor
Stravinsky.
This is the part of the chosen one, the
end of this work. and it's a chosen one,
so it's the girl who has to dance till she
dies, actually. So, we are not prepared at
all. It's really something we didn't... I
told them yesterday, kind of, what we're
going to do. and Ruthie, she did it
actually many times in the choreography.
Rafaela has learned it two, three years
ago, but she never danced it. Julie
touched it once a little bit. And
Fernando, I also like to do it. Usually
it's a woman who is doing that. He never
did it, but they always see it. they see
it many times because usually when this
dance happens the other people are all
there, they watch how that happened. So I
thought maybe I want to do something too,
I thought maybe it's nice to do a little
work with them and that's why they are not
prepared otherwise I have nothing to do.
But to have just a little bit the idea of
it Maybe it's a little bit difficult for
Ruchi, but maybe the best is once like
easily, because it's hard. Maybe she can
show once a dance, and then we do piece by
piece, work a little bit on it.
¶¶
Usually it's, of course, without
preparation and without the peace when
that happened, it's also it's a little
complicated and usually the it's a yeah
it's about the earth about the spring and
usually when they dance it it's in the
earth and when they fall it's the whole
thing is very different because you never
have a floor like this the dancing and the
earth so that's very different thank you
so okay
Okay, we start a little bit. You must just
a little bit help.
We take the first bit, a little marking.
You remember the...
They all go away. Please come here.
I don't want to dance, you should dance.
You know the movement, you know this one,
because many things in the choreography,
they are also in different ways, different
combinations, so it's not so new, the
step. You have this one, only without
the... And this, and this with head down.
And then the weight, and we go back. And
again.
And with looking. And go back again. And
you have heard me wrote this.
The third time. The third time, only till
here. Yeah, only till here. Here, then
here, here, down,
down, down, up, down, down, up. And, oh,
I'm sorry. Sorry. I'm sorry, yeah. One
more time. And this.
One more. And like you're getting yourself
and then up.
Changing direction. One more.
Not much. Okay. Okay. Okay, yeah. Oh, it's
down, the accent is always . The accent is
down. And right away.
With looking.
Third time. Okay.
And up and again this one, like this.
It's like so. You go here and then you
take it from here, you squeeze, you take
it out here like this. Out and it's like
you hit. No, no. You take it out and it's
like you're hitting yourself. and then and
then and then and then and then and then
and then and then back and then change
maybe we mark it a few times and we just
hear it with the music just marking yeah
Matthias?
without the fall without the fall in the
beginning
Not much yet.
Just that you know with the music. Easy.
Not too much.
Okay, okay, okay. Okay. Okay.
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.
Okay. da da da, da da da, only below. da
da da, and you have this arm, this arm,
and you put together, so, round together,
oh, microphone, and like a curve, like a
curve back. Can you show it again please?
Just a little bit. Just that. Yeah.
This like a circle. Like make a circle.
Yeah.
And then from here, you have with the leg.
I do it without the leg. You have this
arm. Go here. You go here with the leg up.
Up. And this is my microphone.
So here, like to cover yourself, and then
it's like, yeah, and then
you have the music when you have some
music, again, .
So again.
We have this.
And then hope. Hope, yeah. In the music,
you must hear it. It's over the music.
over the music there's a certain sound you
do up down down down up arm
yes
again wait a second, again in the urn yes,
this is only small, it takes little time
it's small, yes Yes, with the head.
This is one passé, not too diagonally, a
little bit flatter. A little bit flatter.
Up. Like somebody takes you here, on the
wrist. And that is like quick. Not looking
up, but looking. Yes, like you cover
yourself, you protect yourself. And then
you go in all directions, like fighting,
like this. And the music is like up, down,
down, down, up, arm.
Maybe we mark it from the beginning,
including this. Okay.
Up... a little jump, crossed legs.
Have you realized the music this is up
down
down down up without putting
the hand extra don't have it here yeah
that's
more like squeezing in it's like the knees
you know here so it's like like it's not
like so but together just up
here here here so actually this is looking
out far this is up and it's done
So, yeah, you are here and then it's like
a jump.
down, down, down, and then down, down,
down, down.
We continue a little bit, continue a
little bit. So the other one with the
music, you know, so you're here, you wait,
and then when this music comes, it's like
you're in so big tension, and it's like,
it's like a shock. It has no shape. It's
this, you listen, you don't know where to
go. It's just like a reaction. The second
one is running so fast as possible, like
you wanna escape, but you can't. You're
running here. And the third one is like
we, I don't know what this is, we stomp.
Stomp, yeah. Like around yourself, and
then you continue. Yes, it has no special,
and then you it's like somebody is behind
you a little bit like so Fernando but
that's that way. A little bit like that.
Yes, Zorro is like that way. And then
sometimes quicker, sometimes faster. Yeah,
till the new movement comes again. Again,
this one.
And then just the weight let go.
It's like a little hop thing.
When you are down, it's already like the
preparation to stretch the knees. The arms
are here.
Then from here, you turn and you do a
rond. The hands go here on your legs. yes
you have a wall to the floor turn here in
and now through the hip up and you go into
this moment yes from
here you go into this one
And then this one. One or two.
And here you wave. Here you wave. Da da
da. Oop. Da da da. Da da da. Da, da, da.
Da, da, da. Attitude. Fall. Look, run.
Again, stop. Yeah, yeah. Slowly, slowly.
From where? From where? Ah, yeah. So
that's clear. From here, walk over clear.
It's this one, so it's a little diagonal.
Running.
Walking around. And now you have a up,
down, step, step, down, down. done take it
easy pa pa pa ta turn here continue into
this and go on into this and continue di
da da here wait and then yeah bum bum dee
dee dee dee oh sorry
from here from here when you are from here
you have this and you're over here
I'm afraid to hit my chest here. Yeah. And
then down, like you've cut, down. Bam,
bam. Bam, bam, bam. Bam, bam. Yeah, arm,
arm. Arm. Yeah. Yum, bam, bam. I did it.
Fall. Look. It's a real fall. It's a real
fall, but that's a... They have to mark
this as little... Maybe we can try once
from here with the music to mark a little
bit where the music is.
Okay, okay. Okay, take it a bit more easy.
It's a, it's a, it's a, Gucci line, it's,
it's right as my easy, just with the
music, you know.
Just for the music, just marking, yeah,
just marking. Julie, did you hear Rafaela
marking? Just like a, okay.
Okay.
How long it takes to... You have to hear
the music first. Yeah, yeah. I was
listening to the club. So okay, the next
bit you have this with the head. You just
try to follow the rhythm of the looking,
hearing, you know, just these little head
movements with the music. And from there,
you have the head movements. From here
it's like your weight, you leave your
weight and you just go in this direction.
Here. It's not high point, it's just like
this.
Then from here comes this one. one, you
know all. This, here, pulling, and again
into this one.
And then you have this with the raw, raw,
over, and stretching, turn, and always
ending profile, after profile ending.
After the turn, profile, yes. You're
ending here and then from here you start
again. Again into the attitude. Attitude,
to the front, over and turn in profile,
yes. Down, down, down. Okay, this you have
three times I think, no?
I think it goes up and then from here. It
goes down like this, yes.
You go like this, but then when you turn,
you just forget, you go the same on the
next one, yes.
And this one is always like with a little
bit, it's
not so low, it's higher here with the
wrist. It's like you're pushing, yes,
fighting it here. Till it's straight,
that's the arm stretch. And then, actually
now there is just a stop. There is certain
music is about three times. Yeah, it's a
kind of stop. And then actually the
beginning comes again. You repeat the
beginning. Repeat the beginning.
Looking.
And then from here it's like, you make the
whole circle. Circle.
Also certain music. We're having
this movement, just this. Oh, yes.
Till here. OK. So where do we do from
where?
after the looking, just to think again
what it was, so you have before you had
done, you remember? After the looking
comes this, yeah. So first you are here,
you have the looking, and then from here
you go in this direction. Now comes this
movement.
This goes into the attitude.
Profile.
Stop.
And then comes the beginning again. Well,
that's clear. The beginning is clear. Only
you can take even more space. Yes. But
then it says the whole beginning except
the end is after the running around that
you have to have a cue for this.
This and this.
Okay, let's have this with music maybe
from the...
Maybe a little bit here, please.
Ah, from here. You walk here and then it's
just like this. Just like direct.
This is, yes, you have to go like right
away into it because there's not so much
time.
You have to already, when you turn, you
have to start with your arms.
Yeah. It's too late. You have to be
quicker here.
Anyway, this movement, wait, wait. You're
here, you're here, one line
on the shoulder. This still tries to stay
diagonal. Actually the leg is more front,
Rafaela. Yes, I think it's more like an
opposite direction. And then you go back
to the standing leg. But this is here.
Yeah, the whole body is, you stay here,
here, here. So, this shoulder is a little
deeper. This one here. And then the hip
pulls you front, but the body back. So
very far backwards, yes, like that. And
then go and right away the arm turn.
Better, yes. Yeah.
Let's go straight down.
Up, and now you go straight. Straight
down. Straight and straight. No, you
don't... Yes, there. And then you... Down.
It goes lower, a little bit lower. When
this arm comes, it goes a bit lower.
and push through and turn
okay yeah okay we hear
this with music Maybe we'll start with
these little heads.
Easy. No, no, no, easy.
You are able to continue? Is it brighter?
The timing of the... We can do it again.
Just mark it, of course. Don't do it too
much.
When you start too late, you never... it's
impossible to... Just easy. Maybe the same
spot. maybe a little tiny little bit
before we can do this accents here, so
with the running.
Oh, gee.
I think you're very good. Huh?
Yeah, it's just the weight brings you a
little bit. Actually it moves a little
bit, yes. Wait a minute, so now we are
here. Now you have a, you touch your hand
here. Touch it, you have your,
like you're going this around, so this
makes you move. So this, up, up, up, and.
And sometimes leave it together, so it's
not all the same. So you have to move so
far with the arm that his foot has to
move. You have to move. And also this
brings it back. So it happens, this
movement in the foot. And sometimes you
leave it even. Sometimes you're only going
like this, and then you open it again. And
then open it. and slow ones and very fast
ones very fat up but always up reaching
reaching always I in the app is reaching
is important up always up Up. Up. Rafa.
Why don't we all go more front? Sorry.
Come, talk a bit.